1) Compiles fine. If robot turns off the program hangs. If the program is killed, the robot turns its motors off. Need to see if errors are recoverable.
2)3038ms for 1000 command -> about 3ms per command.
3) Familiarise yourself with cross-compilation for the microcontroller, downloading programs and
running these.

4. Familiarise yourself with the operation of the Sensor Simulator (see Appendix S.??). Verify
that the simulator can correctly simulate the input and output of data at the addresses chosen
for the PCF8574 chip(s) in the circuitry being developed by the electronics sub-team. Pay
particular attention to the initialisation required to use individual bits (i.e. signals on the
chip’s input/output pins) as inputs and hence the possibility of using some pins as inputs
and others as outputs. Discuss with the electronics sub-team the allocation of signals to the
individual bits in these chips and hence develop the routines to read and write the chip(s).
5. Compare the speed of various operations, e.g. reading sensor and ADC values, using a program
running on the workstation and one running on the microcontroller. Bear in mind that: the
workstation processor is fast but the connection to the microcontroller is limited by bandwidth
and traffic; whereas the microcontroller’s ARM-based processor is much slower but commands
and requests do not need to be transferred over the wireless network. What effect does output
to the screen, e.g. for debugging, have on the speed in each case?
6. Calibrate the motor speed and acceleration against the values of the parameters to the motor
and ramp commands for all the motors you intend to use (they will not necessarily be iden-
tical). This information will be of help to the mechanical designers in determining a suitable
wheel size. You should discuss these results with them in light of the figures they have on the
effect of load on motor speed.
7. Verify the operation and effect on the Status Register of the emergency stop commands
STOP_SELECT, STOP_IF_HIGH and STOP_IF_LOW.
8. Consider, with the Mechanics team, the effect of controller gain and line-following sensor
position on the damping ratio and motion of the vehicle. What constraints on sensor position
are imposed by: i) control system stability; ii) cornering and reversing; and iii) the proposed
construction? Controller equations for a simple system are given in the Systems Design
section D.A. The test chassis may allow you test out some of these ideas and to start to
develop line-following code.
9. Consider, with the rest of the team, the effects of motor dynamics and system inertia on
stopping and starting the robot.
10. Develop prototype line following code, and hence test out your conclusions about sensor
positioning, using the test chassis and interface circuitry produced by the electronics team for
the sensors.

